## Top 500 Supercomputers

### Investigated Computer: 50th Ranked Computer - MareNostrum 5 GPP

The MareNostrum 5 GPP is the 50th ranked super computer in the world, in terms of computing power. It is located at the EuroHPC/BSC site in Barcelona, Spain, and was installed in 2023. It was manufactured with Lenovo and has an impressive 725,760 cores. It utilizes the Xeon Platinum 8400+ 56C 2GHz processor and is interconnected with Infiniband NDR200. During testing it has reached a LINPAC performance (Rmax) of 40.10 petaflops, with a theoretical peak performance (Rpeak) of 46.37 petaflops. It also achieved an Nmax of 13,188,096 with an HPCG of 484.364 teraflops. In order to achieve these numbers it runs through 5,752.90 kW, but this power measurement was only done as a level 1. The software that this computer runs on is RedHat 9.1, with the oneapi2023.1 compiler and using the MPI MKL, there is no math library on board for this computer. MareNostrum is generally used for atmospheric climate modeling and in biomedical research where large-scale simulations and data analysis is required. As a GPP (General Purpose Partition) it can be used for a wide array of applications, specifically in situations that require large parallel processing using GPU-CPU architectures. An example of how this computer could be used to benefit physics is in high resolution atomic and molecular modeling, as individual computers and smaller supercomputers would struggle to simulate the complex geometries involved. 